---
layout: default
year: 2023
---
The 9th Richard D. Jenks Memorial Prize for Excellence in Software Engineering for Computer Algebra will be announced end of 2023 or early 2024 and awarded at ISSAC 2024. The Prize will consist of a plaque and a cash award of $1,000.

Nominations, including self nominations, for this Prize are hereby solicited. Each nomination should be accompanied by a carefully completed Nomination Form. Candidates (or their nominators) should arrange to have two to four confidential letters of recommendation submitted by persons who are familiar with the nominee's software engineering achievements in computer algebra. The letters are an especially important part of the nomination packet.

Software engineering will be interpreted broadly, but it should be an important component in the work of any nominee. The nominee can be an individual or a team, when the latter is appropriate. Any questions about the suitability of a given body of work for the Prize should be directed to the chair of the 2021 Jenks Prize Committee listed below.

All nominations must be received by 30th November 2023, anywhere on earth.

The Prize winner will be selected by the 2023 Jenks Prize Committee.

[James Davenport](https://people.bath.ac.uk/masjhd/), Department of Computer Science, University of Bath, England.

All nominations and supporting papers should be sent by email to both 
[jenksprize@sigsam.org](mailto:jenksprize@sigsam.org)
 and [J.H.Davenport@bath.ac.uk](mailto:J.H.Davenport@bath.ac.uk).
